Radar and LiDAR
Radars have in automobiles for years. You can find them in systems like adaptive cruise control, 
blind spot warning, collision warning and collision avoidance. Even though Radar is a mature technology,
 it still gets improved all the time to make it even more powerful. While other sensors measure velocity
 by calculating the difference between two readings, Radar uses something called the Doppler effect to 
measure speed directly. The Doppler effect measures the change in frequency of the Radar waves based on
whether the object is moving away from you or toward you. This is kind of like how a fire engine siren will 
sound differently depending on whether the fire engine is moving away from you or toward you. The Doppler effect
 is important for sensor fusion because it gives us the velocity as an independent measure parameter, and it makes 
the fusion algorithms converge much faster. Radar can also be used for localization by generating Radar maps of
 the environment. Because Radar waves bounce off hard waves bounce off hard surfaces, they can provide measurements
 to objects without direct line of flight. Radar can see underneath other vehicles, and spot buildings and objects
 that would be obscured otherwise. Of all the sensors on the car, Radar is the least affected by rain or fog and can
 have a wide field of view, about 150 degrees, or a long range, 200 plus meters. Compared to LiDARs and cameras,
 Radars have a low resolution. Especially in the vertical direction, the resolution is very limited. The lower
 resolution also means that reflections from static objects can cause problems. For example, manhole covers or a
 soda can lying on the street can have high Radar reflectivity even though they are relatively small.This is called
 Radar clutter, and it’s why current automotive Radars usually disregard static objects.

LiDAR stands for Light Detection and Ranging, just as Radar stands for Radio Detection and Ranging. Unlike Radar,
 which uses radio waves, LiDAR uses an infrared laser beam to determine the distance between the sensor and a nearby 
object. Most current LiDAR use light in the 900 nanometer wave length range, although some LiDARs use longer wave lengths,
 which perform better in rain and fog. In current LiDARs, a rotating swivel scans the laser beam across the field of view.
 The lasers are pulsed, and the pulses are reflected by objects. These reflections return a point cloud that represents
 these objects. LiDAR has a much higher spatial resolution than Radar because of the more focused laser beam, the larger
 number of scan layers in the vertical direction, and the high density of LiDAR points per layer. The current generation of 
LiDARs cannot measure the velocity of objects directly. And have to rely on the differing position between two or more scans.
 LiDARs are also more affected by weather conditions and by dirt on the sensor, which requires keeping them clean. They are 
also much bulkier than other sensors and therefore, more difficult to integrate unless one just wants to mount a big scanner 
on the roof of the vehicle.